---
layout: post
title: Biggest challenge while learning to develop
---
In the following post I wish to discuss my biggest challenges while learning web development. There have been many challenges as I was completely new to the subject, but for brevity's sake I will discusss only three.

A major challenge for me has been to _think_ and _express_ myself as a web developer. For all of my brief career after college, I have been in the financial industry. In finance, everything is in a language I have dealt with my whole life, namely English. In addition to English, finance relies heavily on numbers, also something I have dealt with my whole life. So thinking and expressing myself in financial terms came somewhat naturally. In web development, however, I have been exposed to languages computers _speak_. Computers _speak_ much differently than humans. We as humans love to use metaphors that sometimes have double meanings. Often times we use sarcasm and say things that we really don't mean. With computers, you must **always** say what you mean. Furthermore, you must say what you mean in a way that the computer understands. This requires you to think about all the different ways that what you say can be interpreted. If what you say isn't precise enough, or is **too** prescise, issues will arise. This is what I mean by thinking like a developer. As a developer, you are trained to express what you mean in a completely different way than everyday life dictates. It has been a difficult, but rewarding adjustment.

Another major challenge has been developing a routine for my studies. While learning web development, you have to maintain a strict routine. Your schedule must be consitent and demanding. Coding is very much about rythmn. Once you lose your rythmn, you begin to feel lost which leads to a feeling of being overwhelmed. This has been hard for me to get used to. Even as a junior and senior in college, I was able to take a weekend off and feel that I hadn't lost any progress in my studies. That is not the case with coding. Even taking a weekend off can knock you off course. As you can imagine this poses tough circumstances. It is quite difficult to maintain an adequate work-life-study balance. I am still strugling with this dilemma to this day. 

The last challenge I will discuss is the type of studying that web development requires. Studying programming has been much different than what I have been accustomed to. In college I would read books and articles and then write an essay or take a test on the material. Occasionally, I would be required to apply what I learned in a real life setting. In web development, the opposite is true. In my learning experience so far, practice and applicaton outweighs reading; that is, I have read a little and practice a whole lot more. This type of learning required an adjustment, but has proven to be far more effective.