---
layout: post
title: Goals as a Front End developer
---
With my first ever blog post, I'd like to take some time to discuss my goals as a front-end developer.

I'll begin with a _big picture_ goal. When I left college a few years ago, I discovered I had a knack for problem-solving. For some, problems cause immense amounts of stress, which tend to lead to poor outcomes. For me, problems seem to bring the best out of me; in a weird way they excite me. I wanted to put my problem-solving skills to work in a field that I felt had a powerful, positive impact on our global society. I initially thought finance was the field, but I quickly realized I was incorrect. I searched for another avenue. Enter web development. Websites, applications, and technology as a whole bring all sorts of information to billions of people. Information is priceless. It can help people make important decisions, inspire people to change the world, make people laugh, help people stay connected; its uses are endless. Building these sites and technology isn't easy. Problems arise constantly. I want to reduce and help solve these problems in order to ensure people from all over have access to the information they need to live more productive and meaningful lives.

Another goal of mine is to unleash my creative potential. For years I feel I have sort of supressed my creative ability to give room for my analytical ability. Although I will continue to reinforce my analytical capabilities, I think its time I focus on creativity. We need to make web devlopment easier and more efficient. I do not want to simply learn the various web development tools out there, I want to help create new ones. The more we can make information and data accessible the better off we are. I do not wish to sit on the sideline. I want to be on the field.


Lastly, but surely not least, an important goal of mine is to help make learning computer programming easier and more accessible for Latinos and African Americans. As a Latino, I am greatly disappointed in the under represantation of my community and that of my fellow African American neighbors. It seems like we are under represnented in nearly all of the major industries and movements in this country. I have no idea why that is, and quite frankly I do not care why that is. The fact is we are under represented and that needs to change. I plan on helping the various organiztions already doing great work on the matter. Hopefully, in the future I can help build a strong organization dedicated to the cause. I also hope that I can set an example for Latino and African American youngsters. I hope they look at me and say >If he can do it, so can I. 